WWW/section/index.rst, before:

Section Resources
=================

This is a collection of files used in section, largely reviewing concepts discussed
in class, and introducing the upcoming homework.

----------------------------

Week 1
################

Template homework
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This serves as template layout for completing the homework. Make sure to load in
relevant packages in the beginning of the document, and **knit often** while you're
completing the homework! This will help ensure that you're able to "knit" the
final html file!

[`Rmd <http://www.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/Template_HW.Rmd>`_]
[`html <http://www.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/Template_HW.html>`_]

Markdown introduction
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Here's a quick guide to some of the formatting options in an R Markdown (Rmd) document.
You can find another handy cheat sheet `here <https://www.rstudio.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/02/rmarkdown-cheatsheet.pdf>`_.

[`Rmd <http://www.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/Rmarkdown_info.Rmd>`_]
[`html <http://www.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/Rmarkdown_info.html>`_]


Getting started with HW1
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Go through some questions from HW1, including questions 1, 2, and 8. Includes
calculating some basic statistics from a vector, loading in dataframes, performing
:math:`\chi^2` contingency tests and goodness-of-fit tests, and manipulating/plotting data.


[`Rmd <http://www.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/Week1_Section.Rmd>`_]
[`html <http://www.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/Week1_Section.html>`_]


----------------------------

Week 2
################

Section file
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Recap on chi-square tests, standard deviation vs. standard error, calculating confidence
intervals, centering vs. standardizing quantitative variables. At the end, we'll touch on t-tests, and
how to calculate power.

[`Rmd <http://www.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/Week2_Section.Rmd>`_]
[`html <http://www.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/Week2_Section.html>`_]


Calculating chi-square handout
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

[`pdf <http://www.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/chisq-test.pdf>`_]

Visualizing the relationship between df and t distribution variance
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

[`html <http://www.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/variance_t_z.html>`_]

----------------------------


Week 3
################

Section file
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Statistical test flowchart. Linear regression and logistic regression bootcamp.

[`Rmd <http://www.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/Week3_Section.Rmd>`_]
[`html <http://www.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/Week3_Section.html>`_]

The GLM: an example
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

An example of running a glm (with lm()) that has a continuous and categorical (dummy coded) predictors.

[`Rmd <http://www.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/glm.Rmd>`_]
[`html <http://www.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/glm.html>`_]




----------------------------



Week 4
################

Section file
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Working through a complete linear modeling problem.

[`Rmd <http://www.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/Week4_Section.Rmd>`_]
[`html <http://www.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/Week4_Section.html>`_]

Exploring logistic regression
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

[`Tutorial <http://web.stanford.edu/class/psych252/tutorials/Tutorial_LogisticRegression.html>`_]

[`Advanced Tutorial <http://web.stanford.edu/class/psych253/section/section_4/section4.html>`_]

[`Logistic Regression App <https://supsych.shinyapps.io/logistic_regression>`_]: Change the slope and intercept, and see how it changes the fit to the data


Collinearity in multiple regression
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

[`Collinearity App <https://gallery.shinyapps.io/collinearity/>`_]: Change the predictor covariance, and see how it changes the magnitude of coefficients in full model


----------------------------


Week 5
################

HW 3 Recap
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Check out the materials from 2013 section for more info on HW3.

[`html <http://web.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section_2013/Section4.html>`_]


Practice interpreting lm() output
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Some example lm() output, with guided questions for interpreting the output.

[`PDF <http://web.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/lm_output_prac.pdf>`_]

Visualizing the lm() output:

[`Rmd <http://web.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/lm_output_prac_plotting.Rmd>`_]
[`html <http://web.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/lm_output_prac_plotting.html>`_]


Practice deciding what statistical test to use
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Given sample scenarios, decide the best way to statistically test each hypothesis.

[`PDF <http://web.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/whattest_blank.pdf>`_]
[`Solutions <http://web.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/whattest_solutions.pdf>`_]


----------------------------


Week 6
################

HW 4, interactions, contrasts, mediation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

[`Rmd <http://web.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/section_week6.Rmd>`_]
[`html <http://web.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/section_week6.html>`_]


----------------------------



Week 7
################

Practice with lm
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Example scenarios and lm output; practice creating contrasts, interpreting contrasts, and interpreting lm output

[`PDF <http://web.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/Week7SectionPractice.pdf>`_]

Practice with mediation & partial correlations
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Walk through mediation and partial correlations using the caffeine dataset.

[`html <http://web.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/Section_week7.html>`_]
[`Rmd <http://web.stanford.edu/class/psych252/sectionSection_week7.Rmd>`_]

----------------------------

Week 8
################

An introduction to mixed effects models
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Defining the linear mixed effects model, an overview of random intercepts and slopes, testing
significance of models, model comparison, ML vs. REML estimation, and item effects.

[`html <http://web.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/Mixed_models_tutorial.html>`_]
[`Rmd <http://web.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/Mixed_models_tutorial.Rmd>`_]

----------------------------

Week 9
################

Homework 5 example
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Walk through an example from HW5. 

[`html <http://web.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/Section_week9.html>`_]
[`Rmd <http://web.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/Section_week9.Rmd>`_]


Practice with mixed effects model comparisons
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Given 2 models, figure out which type of estimation (ML, REML) to use for fitting the model,
and then determine how to compare the models (e.g., likelihood ratio test comparing difference in deviances, AIC, etc.).

[`PDF <http://web.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/lmer_comparison_handout.pdf>`_]
[`html <http://web.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/example_comparisons.html>`_]
[`Rmd <http://web.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/example_comparisons.Rmd>`_]


----------------------------

Commit message:

Add simulation data for lmer

WWW/section/index.rst, after:

Section Resources
=================

This is a collection of files used in section, largely reviewing concepts discussed
in class, and introducing the upcoming homework.

----------------------------

Week 1
################

Template homework
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This serves as template layout for completing the homework. Make sure to load in
relevant packages in the beginning of the document, and **knit often** while you're
completing the homework! This will help ensure that you're able to "knit" the
final html file!

[`Rmd <http://www.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/Template_HW.Rmd>`_]
[`html <http://www.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/Template_HW.html>`_]

Markdown introduction
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Here's a quick guide to some of the formatting options in an R Markdown (Rmd) document.
You can find another handy cheat sheet `here <https://www.rstudio.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/02/rmarkdown-cheatsheet.pdf>`_.

[`Rmd <http://www.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/Rmarkdown_info.Rmd>`_]
[`html <http://www.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/Rmarkdown_info.html>`_]


Getting started with HW1
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Go through some questions from HW1, including questions 1, 2, and 8. Includes
calculating some basic statistics from a vector, loading in dataframes, performing
:math:`\chi^2` contingency tests and goodness-of-fit tests, and manipulating/plotting data.


[`Rmd <http://www.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/Week1_Section.Rmd>`_]
[`html <http://www.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/Week1_Section.html>`_]


----------------------------

Week 2
################

Section file
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Recap on chi-square tests, standard deviation vs. standard error, calculating confidence
intervals, centering vs. standardizing quantitative variables. At the end, we'll touch on t-tests, and
how to calculate power.

[`Rmd <http://www.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/Week2_Section.Rmd>`_]
[`html <http://www.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/Week2_Section.html>`_]


Calculating chi-square handout
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

[`pdf <http://www.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/chisq-test.pdf>`_]

Visualizing the relationship between df and t distribution variance
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

[`html <http://www.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/variance_t_z.html>`_]

----------------------------


Week 3
################

Section file
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Statistical test flowchart. Linear regression and logistic regression bootcamp.

[`Rmd <http://www.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/Week3_Section.Rmd>`_]
[`html <http://www.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/Week3_Section.html>`_]

The GLM: an example
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

An example of running a glm (with lm()) that has a continuous and categorical (dummy coded) predictors.

[`Rmd <http://www.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/glm.Rmd>`_]
[`html <http://www.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/glm.html>`_]




----------------------------



Week 4
################

Section file
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Working through a complete linear modeling problem.

[`Rmd <http://www.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/Week4_Section.Rmd>`_]
[`html <http://www.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/Week4_Section.html>`_]

Exploring logistic regression
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

[`Tutorial <http://web.stanford.edu/class/psych252/tutorials/Tutorial_LogisticRegression.html>`_]

[`Advanced Tutorial <http://web.stanford.edu/class/psych253/section/section_4/section4.html>`_]

[`Logistic Regression App <https://supsych.shinyapps.io/logistic_regression>`_]: Change the slope and intercept, and see how it changes the fit to the data


Collinearity in multiple regression
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

[`Collinearity App <https://gallery.shinyapps.io/collinearity/>`_]: Change the predictor covariance, and see how it changes the magnitude of coefficients in full model


----------------------------


Week 5
################

HW 3 Recap
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Check out the materials from 2013 section for more info on HW3.

[`html <http://web.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section_2013/Section4.html>`_]


Practice interpreting lm() output
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Some example lm() output, with guided questions for interpreting the output.

[`PDF <http://web.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/lm_output_prac.pdf>`_]

Visualizing the lm() output:

[`Rmd <http://web.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/lm_output_prac_plotting.Rmd>`_]
[`html <http://web.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/lm_output_prac_plotting.html>`_]


Practice deciding what statistical test to use
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Given sample scenarios, decide the best way to statistically test each hypothesis.

[`PDF <http://web.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/whattest_blank.pdf>`_]
[`Solutions <http://web.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/whattest_solutions.pdf>`_]


----------------------------


Week 6
################

HW 4, interactions, contrasts, mediation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

[`Rmd <http://web.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/section_week6.Rmd>`_]
[`html <http://web.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/section_week6.html>`_]


----------------------------



Week 7
################

Practice with lm
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Example scenarios and lm output; practice creating contrasts, interpreting contrasts, and interpreting lm output

[`PDF <http://web.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/Week7SectionPractice.pdf>`_]

Practice with mediation & partial correlations
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Walk through mediation and partial correlations using the caffeine dataset.

[`html <http://web.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/Section_week7.html>`_]
[`Rmd <http://web.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/Section_week7.Rmd>`_]

----------------------------

Week 8
################

An introduction to mixed effects models
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Defining the linear mixed effects model, an overview of random intercepts and slopes, testing
significance of models, model comparison, ML vs. REML estimation, and item effects.

[`html <http://web.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/Mixed_models_tutorial.html>`_]
[`Rmd <http://web.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/Mixed_models_tutorial.Rmd>`_]

----------------------------

Week 9
################

Homework 5 example
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Walk through an example from HW5.

[`html <http://web.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/Section_week9.html>`_]
[`Rmd <http://web.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/Section_week9.Rmd>`_]

Practice with mixed effects model comparisons
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Given 2 models, figure out which type of estimation (ML, REML) to use for fitting the model,
and then determine how to compare the models (e.g., likelihood ratio test comparing difference in deviances, AIC, etc.).

[`PDF <http://web.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/lmer_comparison_handout.pdf>`_]
[`html <http://web.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/example_comparisons.html>`_]
[`Rmd <http://web.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/example_comparisons.Rmd>`_]


----------------------------

Week 10
################

Exploring lmer with simulated data
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Try changing the parameters (e.g., between subject variability in intercept) and see how models fit with random intercepts and slopes differ.

[`html <https://supsych.shinyapps.io/lmer_simulation>`_]
[`Rmd <http://web.stanford.edu/class/psych252/section/lmer_simulation.Rmd>`_]
