WWW/cheatsheets/index.rst, before:

Cheat sheets
================

This is a collection of cheat sheets for basic concepts that may be
helpful for the course.

Created by Psych 252 TAs


R Cheatsheet
----------------------------

[`PDF <http://www.stanford.edu/class/psych252/cheatsheets/RQuickRef.pdf>`_]

This PDF includes useful R functions and syntax for Psych 252. Includes info on how to
read and explore data frames, basic statistical functions and operations, programming basics,
and plotting with ``ggplot``.


Math behind Chi Square tests
----------------------------

[`html <http://www.stanford.edu/class/psych252/cheatsheets/chisquare.html>`_]
[`Rmd <http://www.stanford.edu/class/psych252/cheatsheets/chisquare.Rmd>`_]

This brief tutorial provides the math to run chi-square tests by hand and with R. It includes both a
one-way classification (i.e., a goodness-of-fit test) and 2 way classification
(i.e., a contingency test, or test of independence).



Model Comparison Guidelines
---------------------------

[`png <http://www.stanford.edu/class/psych252/cheatsheets/model_comparisons.png>`_]

Guide for comparing mixed effects models (and fixed effects models), adapted from Paul's guide;
how to determine whether to use ML or REML when fitting your model; comparing models based on
deviance, or using AIC.

Commit message:

Add ddplyr/tidyr cheatsheet, structure cheatsheet page by general R and stats

WWW/cheatsheets/index.rst, after:

Cheat sheets
================

This is a collection of cheat sheets for basic concepts that may be
helpful for the course.

Created by Psych 252 TAs

Using R
---------------------------

R cheatsheet
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[`PDF <http://www.stanford.edu/class/psych252/cheatsheets/RQuickRef.pdf>`_]

This PDF includes useful R functions and syntax for Psych 252. Includes info on how to
**read** and **explore data frames**, basic **statistical functions** and **operations**, programming basics,
and **plotting** with ``ggplot``.

Data wrangling cheatsheet
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[`PDF <https://www.rstudio.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/02/data-wrangling-cheatsheet.pdf>`_]

A guide for using ```{dplry}`` and ``{tidyr}`` for organizing/condensing data. Includes
syntax and explains key functions for **reshaping data** (e.g., short-form to long-form), **combining data sets**,
taking a **subset of rows/columns**, etc.


Statistics
---------------------------

Math behind Chi Square tests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[`html <http://www.stanford.edu/class/psych252/cheatsheets/chisquare.html>`_]
[`Rmd <http://www.stanford.edu/class/psych252/cheatsheets/chisquare.Rmd>`_]

This brief tutorial provides the math to **run chi-square tests by hand and with R**. It includes both a
one-way classification (i.e., a **goodness-of-fit test**) and 2 way classification
(i.e., a **contingency test**, or test of independence).



Model comparison guidelines
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

[`png <http://www.stanford.edu/class/psych252/cheatsheets/model_comparisons.png>`_]

Guide for **comparing mixed effects models** (and fixed effects models), adapted from Paul's guide;
how to determine whether to use ML or REML when fitting your model; comparing models based on
deviance, or using AIC.
